# Time boxes, events and rules

Time books is a period of time dedicated to a specific event in scrum. In the scrum guide the term time box has been renamed event, but as the term time box is still prevalent.

Part of the scrum Masters role is to carry out time management very strictly. This means beginning and ending meetings and sprints on time and helps the team to maximize their productivity.

It's the scrum Masters role to organize and facilitate all of these events.
- `The sprint` is a period of time, less than a calendar month during which the team built a releasable increment of the product.
- `The sprint planning meeting` is the development team plan, the work they will do in the upcoming sprint. The meeting last no more than eight hours for a one month sprint. There are two topics discussed in this meeting, the what and the how:
    - In the first topic, `the what` the product owner presents the list of features that he would like the team to deliver from the product backlog.
    Eventually, they pick the features they believe they can commit to in the sprint in the second topic of the meeting. The team break the stories into tasks and estimate them.
    - In this way, they are designing their work and they decide `how` they will build the product increment. They may adjust and negotiate which stories they can commit to with the product owner, but finally they will decide what they're going to take on in the sprint.
- `The daily scrum` is a daily meeting lasting no more than 15 minutes. One by one, each development team member answers the following questions which aren't compulsory, but are the usual pattern for how things are done in a daily scrum meeting.
    - What did I do yesterday that will contribute to the sprint goal?
    - What do I aim to do today that will contribute to the sprint goal?
    - Do I have any impediments that will hold me back from delivering the sprint goal?
The sprint backlog and the sprint burn down should be visible to draw attention to the team's progress or any impediments.
- `Sprint review` meeting is held at the end of each sprint and allows the team to demo the increment of the product to the product, owner and stakeholders.
- `The demo sprint retrospective` is a meeting held after the Sprint review and before the next sprint, one by one, each team member answers the questions.
    - What works in this sprint and what could be improved in the next sprint?
Definitely the purpose is to understand what worked in the sprint and what could be improved in the next sprint. This is a chance for the team to inspect and adapt. It generates continuous improvement.
- `The release planning` meeting is not mentioned in the current version of the scrum guide, but it is a meeting is often held in scrum, so I will discuss it. The purpose of this meeting is for the product owner to present a subset of the features from the product backlog and the team to agree what looks feasible to deliver in terms of scope or a release date.