# Release planning

The purpose of the release plan is to give the scrum team a reasonable forecast of the number of features scope that are likely to be delivered within a specific timeframe.
The timeframe may be of less importance if the release is scope driven, as explained below.

The release plan focuses the whole scrum team on the endgame and vision of the product owner.
This usually spurs on a highly motivated development team and brings any issues to the surface as early as possible.

It is important to understand that although release planning is commonly used on projects and was advocated in the original scrum guide, it is not essential for all scrum projects and my opinion for software projects.

A release plan is nearly always worth doing since it binds the whole team and provides forecast for the whole organisation.

## Scope driven versus data driven release

A released plan is usually either scope driven are data driven.
The key drivers for a date driven release are usually marketing factors such as a sporting event, peak shopping season or national holiday. Their chosen date is usually related to our source of revenue for the business.

The key driver for a scope driven release is a specific set of valuable features. For example, an F1 game may be of a little value to the user without driver selection. Circuit selection, race sequences and dynamic circuit map.

However, it may be of little revenue for the business without some advertising built into the software. Therefore, the in-game features plus advertising may be defined as a minimum scope for an acceptable release and deemed more important than any date.

Once the team is fully resourced, it is obvious that the more features we add, the longer the product is likely to take to release. Similarly, the closer we bring the date, the less features we are likely to build before launch.

Are this common sense reason either the date or scope can be fixed, but not both. This is to say that a project should be either date driven or scope driven. It is also important to realize that attempting to add features or bring forward the date without updating

the plan is likely to reduce the quality of the product. Since we end up trying to achieve the impossible and cause the same last minute scramble that scrum was designed to avoid, this is often something that a scrum master needs to communicate to stakeholders and a product owner, if not already understood.

In any case, a released plan allows sensible planning on a sprint by sprint basis. So long as the plan is followed, the project should be plain sailing.

## Released planning and meeting and release backlog

The purpose of the release planning meeting is for the whole scrum team to agree what they feel is achievable either by the release date or for the release scope.

Usually, the scrum master, our product owner, will discuss the velocity number of sprints left and ultimate release go with the team.

This gives the team an opportunity to advise the product owner on any key features, technical or otherwise left out of the plan and understand what the aim is.

Their product owner can then communicate to the business knowing that all has been taken into account. There may be some slight or even drastic changes to the plan because of team vacation plans.

New ideas are new information that arises from this meeting. The outcome of the meeting should be that a release backlog that the whole team are focused on delivering is created and a whole scrum team should leave with a sense of clarity.