# User Story and acceptance criteria

User story writing is a topic unto itself, but since it is a usual part of creating a product backlog, i will introduce the key concepts 

## User stories, the three R's

Although not a scrum artifact, strictly speaking in industr each product backlog requirement is usually maintained in the form of a user story. A user story is a description of a requirement from a user's point of view. The idea is that delivering value to the user will result in higher return on investment, return on investment and a great product.

Therefore, our user story helps to give the whole scrum team the correct focus. User stories are usually written on three by five inch cards small enough to carry and pass around the team, but large enough to write a description and acceptance criteria on.

User stories typically use the following convention:

1. As a < role >
2. I want < requirement >
3. So that < reason/ROI >

I call this the three hours of story card writing.

- The role focuses everyone on what type of user the feature is aimed at.
- The requirement explains what the user should be able to do.
- The reason, or I explains what the value is to the user and therefore to the business.

This third point is often overlooked, but in my experience it can add tremendous value and help the product owner to avoid adding useless features from a user's point of view to the backlog.

If there are cases where the story description speaks for itself in the first two points, then the third can be admitted. If we're building a mobile Formula One game, an example of a user story would be:

1. As an F1 game player
2. I want to see a circuit map 
3. So that I know where I am on the circuit

## Acceptance criteria

The purpose of the acceptance criteria is to articulate precisely when the user story is done from the product owner's perspective, they should translate into acceptance, test that a tester or quality assurance tester can use to verify the quality of a feature.
A tester should be involved in writing them, but it is a product owner's responsibility to produce them.
Agile business analysts are very helpful in assisting product owners and extracting the right information for user stories.

The template I use for writing acceptance criteria is:

- A < role > should < see/be able to do > the following:
1. Acceptance criteria one
2. Acceptance criteria two
3. Acceptance criteria three
4. et cetera

- Edge cases:
1. edge cases one
2. edge cases two
3. edge cases three
4. et cetera

This is a simple, bullet pointed list of criteria. It's nothing complex, and neither should it be. All that is needed is a set of logical criteria that could be used for test. Also note that edge cases are separated out. This is not a necessity, but in my experience, it helps to force thinking of tricky situations that may arise.

An example of writing acceptance criteria using this template is:

- An F1 game players should see a track that:
1. as closely as possible resembles the shape of the F1 track in the game
2. consist of a graphical circuit line that fits within a three-by-five proportioned box
3. has a small dot to represent the game player's car
4. The Dodge should move in relation to an in proportion to the game player's position on the track.

- Edge cases:
1. If the car blows up, the dodge should turn red for one second, then disappear.

Based on these test designs and an actual implementation of a circuit map can be made. Please note that the stories above assume that the designers and user interface designers will work with the team to fine tune exact positioning, look and feel, and the real world teams will likely ask for clarification and some more detail where necessary.

I suggest that the product owners use this as a chance to maximize the value of process by fine tuning their criteria to the lab so that the team needs.

## Prioritization

Prioritizing involves using the value of a feature business now you all return on investment to decide where it's user story sits in the backlog. Stories that are more valuable sit at the top and stories that are less valuable sit at the bottom.

The product owner will need to decide what value means for the product that is. Is it revenue user likeability sales in the first month, magazine ratings or all of the bug from experience, the priorities are a mixture of all of the above, however, since all products have a user, the user experience benefit usually dictates the story's value.

Many product owners will already know this, but the scrum master can assist product owners who are new to this concept in understanding and realizing the value of prioritization.

With paper story cards, ordering the stack is, of course, enough to show priority. However, there are a number of software tools that allow us to create virtual stories with software story cards.

I recommend using drag and drop, or if that is unavailable, a relative scale, usually one to 50 is enough, but even one to 100 worked for huge backlogs. The highest priority item can be numbered 100 and the lowest one.

For example, it does not matter as long as the product owner can quickly and easily change the priority of any item in the backlog to give it a visual order. The highest value items can then be picked up for the oncoming sprint.

## Product backlog, grooming and estimation.

The original scrum guide states that during a sprint scrum, teams should spend some time working with the product owner to groom the backlog.

This is helpful because both the scrum master and development team usually have experiences that can aid their product owner and making well informed feature and priority decisions.

That is a website development team by no ways to optimize the website search results. This may translate into a backlog item and the same way the scrum master may know of an upcoming dependency that affects the backlog priorities.

In general, I recommend holding a time box meeting halfway through the sprint to discuss and estimate any newly added backlog stories. This results in shorter planning sessions and a well informed scrum team. I usually use this session as the route to an estimated release backlog.

Another benefit of this time box is the ability for the team to help the product owner to break down large backlog items, larger user stories are known as epics.

The general rule of thumb is that a short story should always fit comfortably within a spread. It is sometimes difficult for a product owner to judge when a story is too big, but the team can usually tell very quickly.