# 21 Tips for scrum mastery.

To become the ultimate scrum master, implement the following tips and strategies.

## Tip one - Be knowledgeable and responsible in your role

- Be committed to your position as a scrum master so you can become the North Star for the team
- If you're effective in your duties, you'll both impress and motivate the team.
- The team's success is something you can strongly affect.

## Tip two - Foster a fun working environment for your team

- To motivate team members, be as fun as the situation allows.
- Think about what you can do to make the workplace better looking and more inviting. A good work environment is inspiring.
- Use your sense of humor as you work, understand how to take the pressure off serious situations without losing the focus. Fun allows people to loosen up and enjoy their work.

## Tip three - Implement good engineering practices

- Encourage use of good engineering practices within your team.
- Explain to the members that these engineering practices are beneficial for quicker releases and better products.
- Show team members how using engineering strategies gives them an edge over those who do not. If you're not an expert, find a mentor or technical expert in these practices.

## Tip four - Be as scummy as the organization permits

- When there's a point of conflict between Scrum and your organization, make a strong case, then if it's becoming too tense, follow the organization's way.
- As Team Protector try to explain the scrum situation, but if it's not working, leave it for a better time.
- Remember to make changes in baby steps, and you'll achieve a lot more over time.

## Tip five - Encourage the team to stick to the plan

- Be sure to point out to your team the right things to do. Where Scrum is concerned because this will allow them to know when a situation comes up, which might force them to act in opposition to scrum principles.
- As much as possible, even before the above scenario occurs, explain the rules to the organization's management.

## Tip six - Be a collaborator

- To become an effective scrum master, collaborate with those on your team.
- Teamwork is essential to giving guidance to the development team.
- No one can force you to collaborate. It's an individual choice, even if you're not collaborative by nature, practice, collaboration and perfected because you need it.
- Forge a great relationship with both the product owner and the team.

## Tip seven - Maintain balance

- Work to sustain an applicable balance between your contribution to the process and the product owners work with the product.
- Also work to sustain a balance, so the team deliver maximum product value and maximizing the use of best practices.

## Tip eight - Keep the team focused on the present sprint.

- Make sure the team does not stray, but stays focused on the present sprint.
- Constantly remind the team of what needs focus.
- Put measures in place, such as displays of the sprint goal to serve as reminders and get the product owner to remind the team of the goals after the daily stand up meetings.

## Tip nine - Encourage team autonomy and self-organization.

- Don't do the team's work for them. Instead, show them how to learn for themselves to promote their growth.
- Deliberately take time away from the team to check the team's self-organizing abilities and progress.
- Collaborate with the product owner to ensure the smooth application of self-organization.

## Tip 10 - Familiarize yourself with the work of all team members.

- Get to know the duties of the product owner. This will ease your collaborative efforts.
- Showing interest in individual team members work shows you're committed to the smooth running of the project.
- Offer support to everyone on the scrum team. This will create a general good work ethos.

# Tip 11 - Build strong relationships with other teams.

- Collaboration is mutually beneficial. Promote and encourage collaboration of ideas and technical or non-technical solutions between your team and other teams.
- Associations with other scrum masters and teams will help you grow professionally in your scrum master ship.
- Scrum takes care of its own. You can only receive scrum mentorship through reaching out to others and letting them reach out to you as well.

## Tip 12 - Tame over commitment within the team.

- Dissuade the development team from selecting too many stories and over committing to too much work in a sprint.
- Although the product owner will not, under normal circumstances, tell them to reduce the amount of stories they peck coached the Pao to do this for the good of the product.
- Explain to them that choosing to do too much will delay them in the end if they don't manage to finish features already started.

## Tip 13 - Note your team's strengths and weaknesses.

- Knowing what your team is capable of doing helps, you know, when they're being indolent and when they're overstretched.
- Both the above scenarios are not acceptable if you know your team, you'll be able to guard against these scenarios.
- Better knowledge of your team will assist you in introducing advantageous engineering practices.

## Tip 14 - Respect your team's space.

- As much as possible, give your development team room to complete a sprints work without constant interference because working with someone breathing over your shoulder is unpleasant.
- Guide them, but leave them alone enough for them to know, you know, they're capable of doing what they should be doing.
- Get to know the members enough to know when you're unintentionally making anyone uncomfortable by being constantly present.

## Tip 15 - Create cordial relationships with the organization management.

- Understand the company principles so you can work well with management.
- Choose to work well with management, because this will be advantageous for you and your team.
- When power plays happen, maintain a level head and keep out of it if it does not affect the operations of your team.
- Always gain a reputation for maintaining a strong stance on the values of Scrum while maintaining and respecting the management of the organization.

## Tip 16 - Respect Time boxes

- Aim to always be on time, especially when facilitating the dev team. 
- Most people learn by observation, do the right thing and your team will take it from you and go from there.
- Respect the small time boxes just as much as you respect the large ones. You cannot impress it upon the team to respect the sprint or delivery time boxes. If you do not train them to respect the 15 minute one.

## Tip 17 - Encourage camaraderie.

- Create a situation where team members of the Dev team actually enjoy working together as a team.
- Encourage them to work jointly in the sense that they have the same objective that of producing a good and effective product.
- Teach them to know that as long as they're working on a project together, they should use the We and US concept to encompass every member, any them should refer to those outside the team.
- Coached the team to use retrospectives to discuss any issue and hold one to ones when absolutely necessary.

## Tip 18 - Motivate the team to reach for the stars.

- Encourage your team to motivate and encourage each other to reach for and go beyond the sky. Encouragement coming from team members can be a welcome change.
- Train them to be accountable to each other, to achieve high levels of performance.

## Tip 19 - Create a multi-skilled team.

- An effective team will have a mixture of varied skills to ensure expert work at what they can for accountability purposes. Anyone on the team is free to incorporate any extra ideas.
- As a scrum master, you can assist with the recruitment and balance of the team to ensure they're open to scrum and have the right mix of skills.

## Tip 20 - Coach teams on the various scrum tools.

- Coached teams to use scrum tools to improve workflow and involve the team in using the ones that can improve their productivity.
- The various scrum tools are there to ease your work, use them at every possible opportunity. 
- Several Web based scrum tools are now available. Most of these serve one purpose increase value and improve your work situation.

## Tip 21 - Be a one team facilitator whenever possible.

- It's advisable for the scrum master to work with one team at a time to prevent division of time and effort between teams.
- The daily work of a scrum master is a lot to handle. Trying to double that amount of work might be putting your body and mind under duress.
- Evaluate why you feel the need to manage two or more teams and use this to determine if managing two teams is worth the extra effort and headache.
- If your manager is asking you to scrum master for two teams and you know, you cannot give both teams the value that you should be giving them, book a meeting with your manager and politely tell them so with reasons why.