# Scrum master versus a traditional project manager

The traditional project manager has more of a commanding role and has the reins of the project in his or her hands. The scrum master has authority but over the framework rather than the people.

The scrum master has extensive knowledge of scrum rules and practices, which is mainly where his or her authority comes from. A scrum master also obtains his or her authority from the ability to ensure the team effectively implements those rules and principles.

## Ways in which the roles of a scrum master and that of a traditional project manager differ.

A traditional project manager has a more commanding role that allows him or her to allocate duties to the team and then ensure the team carries out its duties.

The scrum master does not allocate any duties the team chooses what they have to work on from the product backlog and all the scrum master does this to ensure the effective implementation of all scrum rules and principles.

Unlike a project manager, a scrum master is not a manager, he or she does not manage the team that produces the work. The scrum master supports the product owner in his role. The scrum master takes on the role of coach and facilitator.

The project manager, on the other hand, is like a ship's captain. He or she directs the ship.

In scrum, the product decision making role does not lie with the scrum master, but with the product owner.

This is unlike in the traditional project management scenario, where the project manager decides the direction a project takes.

The scrum master bulldozes through impediments he or she is the one to whom the team members go if they face impediments, they cannot pass through and the scrum master should do all in his or her power to level the ground.

The team has to make problems visible. And then self-organize and self adjust to solve the problems. The scrum master helps them do this effectively.

The traditional project manager has the role of ensuring that the goals of the project are achieved. That is the person answerable to the business for achieving the project goals. And scrum, this role falls on the product owner's shoulders.