# Typical impediments and challenges.

Although challenges will differ, the following points summarise a typical day in the life of a scrum master, as well as possible impediments and challenges he or she might face.

- Get to the office 15 minutes earlier than the team to ensure Workstation is ready for the day before the team arrives by removing distractions.
- Coordinate the daily stand up meeting.
- Neutralized tempers flaring up from the stand up meeting, someone woke up on the wrong side of the bed.
- Time to analyze the discussion in the daily standup meeting and decide which impediments to focus on removing.
- Report team dated ahead of department by indicating the team's velocity and burn down rates on the relevant chart.
- Have meeting over coffee with product owner to discuss top prioritized stories and how to improve managing the product backlog.
- Hold meeting with one of the vice presidents of the company. He planned to staff get together for a day, set aside for our review.
- Together with the product owner, attend release performance testing, meeting and discuss how best to include distant stakeholders in retrospective reviews.
- Meet with the product owner to help in the extraction stories from development operations.
- have a short time boxed meeting with a developer to help him or her analyze and get a better understanding of the scrum if he or she earlier on indicated he or she was having difficulties.
- Working lunch with some top management. Some have been asking members of the team to do work outside the sprint backlog.
- Assist the product owner with some management tools he or she wanted assistance in implementing.
- Work with a new engineer to train him or her in the implementation of test driven development.
- Choose activity and points of focus for the retrospective meeting, which follows.
- Discussion with product owner about how to cool down a company political issue with a potential to affect the team before the issue gets to the team.
- Leave office an hour and a half earlier than usual to attend an evening, agile conference.