# Mastering Scrum. Scrum Master tips and tricks.

Every day in the life of a scrum master is a chance for further improvement on the known, there's never a time when a scrum master has enough information.

Therefore, it's your prerogative as the scrum master to grab as many chances to improve as you possibly can.

The following is a list of techniques that you can use to aim your scrum master ship journey.

## Have the desire to know more.

You can never say you've reached the zenith of knowledge. As such, you can still learn something even if you believe you know a lot about Scrum.
Have the intrinsic motivation to know more, because this is the only way to improve your team's performance.
When you're in the scrum master position, when you know more, the team believes in your abilities and seek your guidance.

## Get to know everything, scrum.

Inside out knowledge of scrum is not only a big plus, it's a prerequisite to being an effective scrum master.
There's nothing as bad as an expert who doesn't know enough about their area of expertise.
Knowing your stuff will help you better prepare to give updated feedback and guidance to a development team.
There's no way you can encourage proper utilization of something you do not know enough about, especially in a role where you have to let others in on your vision.
As discussed, I suggest you start with the scrum guide.

## Join online forums.

It's a good thing we live in a world where information is easily available and where people can easily get together to pool ideas.
In your quest to know more and become a scrum reel expert, joining online forums is a good way to improve what you know and meet people from all over the world to share the joys and tears of scrum master ship and to mentor you and arias you might not be as strong as you desire to be if you joined the scrum Borg community, you'll get a wealth of information.

## Facilitate and collaborate 

As a scrum master, you should always bear in mind that you're a collaborator and a facilitator, not a commander or controller of the development team, and should therefore guide the team and not lead them. Do not put them under a lot of pressure. Just enough of it.

## Promote maximum value

When you're a scrum master, all your actions should gravitate toward ensuring and promoting the production of maximum value through the team's performance, starting from the beginning of the project until the end.
You can achieve that goal by encouraging team members to be as scummy as they possibly can under the circumstances.

## Practice, patience

Change rarely, if ever, happens overnight. To achieve the change you desire in your team, especially if you're working with those new to scrum patiently, do what you have to do and give the team time to learn from you as you embody the principles of agile.
Do not expect a miracle or for new to scrum teams to know everything about it in a week. It will take time.

## hallenge and be challenged

Remember, you're the custodian of the development team. There may be times when top company management interferes with the duties of your team.
In these instances, you have to step in and talk to the people concerned on behalf of your team.
Failure to do this will negatively affect the team's performance, and as the custodian, you will be to blame.

## Learn to coach the team.

Coaching means teaching the team what you know, so they can do it themselves instead of solving problems for team members.
Show them how to solve the problems themselves.
Do not take over team member meetings and do not do their work for them.
If you do this, you'll empower the team and teach them self-reliance and self-organization qualities, they need to be effective.
Yes, they should come to you for guidance. But first, they have to try to work things out themselves.

## Communicate effectively

Sometimes you'll find that your role as a set of fire, as the protector of the team, you may find that you're in conflict with some seniors on the team. 
It's your right, as stated by your role, to ensure that nothing interferes with the spreads.
And if it does, you get in and tackle it on the team's behalf.
Communication is not only getting your mind across, it's also being mindful of your choice of words.
You'll need verbal diplomacy to make this one work.

## Encourage communication

How team members communicate or failed to communicate with each other can make or break team spirit.
The success of the development framework, which you facilitate rests upon the team members communication patterns, both among themselves and with you.
Team members need to be open about their progresses, discoveries and impediments for the process to go smoothly. 
The daily scrums are the ideal place for that, encourage team members to utilize them.

## Prove the benefits of scrub

You are scrums brand ambassador. And as such, one of your key roles is to prove to the team the effectiveness of scrum.
Be firm in what you know, to be the scrum way and refrain from ideas that contravene the scrum way.
If you start doing things contrary to the principles of Scrum, yet, you're supposed to be the expert.
The team members will pick on those which will make dissuading them from such a tough ordeal.
Do not be a do, as I say, and not as I do scrum master.

## Be on the same page with the product owner

This should particularly be the case when it comes to user stories. It might be that the user stories were not clear.
And what the product owner meant and what you and the team thought the project was were different.
This scenario will undoubtedly create the wrong product.
Therefore, it's paramount for you as scrum master to know exactly what's on the product owner's mind pertaining to the vision.
It also helps to understand your product owners frustrations, weaknesses and strengths in order to help move things forward.