# Other practices

## continuous delivery

Continuous delivery is: 
- the capability to continually deploy software to production as frequently as needed
- this is done to improve speed, to market and 
- ensure high quality

Deploying codes and a seamless, no longer strenuous fashion 
- improves your disaster recovery and business continuity, in turn
- improving business agility

Let us look at this with the help of a scenario.

Meet Joe, our engineer. 
- Joe has been asked to deploy an emergency fix to the company's website, which is currently stopping them from taking transactions.
- Joe has no testers available to test his fix, and so the company has decided to take the risk and pushes code to production.
- Joe creates a build and deploys to production.
- The build does solve the existing problem, but it's caused a new defect that stops the customer from using any other part of the site.
- Joe's boss is not happy and blames Joe for the business losing billions of dollars while they fix the newly introduced defect.
- The new defect has now been fixed, but Joe's company is overly cautious of deploying any more code.

This slow risk to market is costing Joe's company millions of dollars whilst the competitors introduce more and more rich functionality to their offerings.
In the meantime, Joe has heard a lot about automation and decides to build an automated solution that will help him deliver production grade builds to production multiple times a day. We call this the continuous delivery pipeline. Joe's delivery pipeline consists of the following modular parts.

## Source control management

Source control management is essentially a tool that helps developers manage their code. 
- The tool stores the code
- managers the code history
- prioritizes tasks
- it also helps developers work together cohesively without being a hindrance to each other

## Continuous integration

This is one of the core practices of continuous delivery. It essentially means combine and run code in one environment on a regular basis, preferably every few hours.
This involves unit testing at the developer level of every incremental piece of code developed.

## Systems integration tests

This test is done to ensure that the software can work with the other systems in a compatible manner. Sometimes software can work fine on its own.
But when made part of a system might fail or might cause another piece of software on the system to fail. This test ensures that this issue does not occur.

## Operational acceptance testing

This testing involves the customer. This essentially is performed to ensure that the software meets the requirements of the customer and serves the purpose for which they needed it built its broad spectrum testing when compared to system integration testing, which is a test just to ensure that the software does not crash.

The software might work just fine, but be of no use to the customer. This is taken care of by operational acceptance testing.

## Security tests

This is a test to ensure that the software is strong enough to battle through any cybercrimes or viruses compliance testing.
These tests are carried out to ensure that the software meets the coding standards laid out for software development.

Some are mandatory, while others are optional.

Joe determined the steps in his pipeline by mapping out the process it would have originally taken to take a build from his development environment and run the many tests to determine if the build was ready for production. The final stage of Joe's continuous delivery pipeline is deployment. 

Now, instead of taking a bill directly from Joe's development environment, Joe now invokes a job and pushes a bill through his continuous delivery pipeline. This, if all tests passing, Joe's bill will become a certified ready to production bill.

The final part of a continuous delivery pipeline is to take a bill that's fit and ready for production and deliver it directly to the live environment. 

Now, Joe can deliver to production multiple times a day, knowing with confidence that his builds are production ready. As mentioned earlier, some of the parts of the production pipeline are mandatory and some are optional.

Now, Joe, instead of having to wait potentially four hours to identify any problems for those builds, is notified of a back loop through his dashboard, informing him of any potential problems or any existing problems with his bill.

## How is this achieved?

Firstly, you have to build an environment, we refer to this as provisioning. This could be any type of environment that's required. Once you have an environment, you have to configure it to your needs, e.g. configuring Apache or Iris to serve web content.

Once you have your configuration environment, the key to this next essential step is automating and being able to build these environments on demand.

After you have all your configuration environments, you'll need a layer that will manage the workflow of the build so that it passes from one test type to another, either continuing with the pipeline or stopping the line, depending on the status of the build and its success criteria.

Now we have a happy Joe and a happy customer.