# Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)

  Is essentially your own private network in AWS that you can use to establish boundaries around your AWS resources. That allows you to define your private IP range for your AWS resources, and you place things like ECS instances and ELBs inside of your VPN;

# Internet gateway

  To allow public traffic from the internet to access your VPC, you attach an **internet gateway** to the VPC. But VPC also includes only private resources, and to access this private resources, you can use a **virtual private gateway**;

# Virtual private gateway (VPG)

  Enables you to establish a virtual private network (VPN) connection between your VPC and a private network. A VPG allow traffic into the VPC only if it is coming from an approved network;

# AWS Direct Connect

  Is a service that enables you to establish a dedicated private connection between your data center and a VPC. The private connection that AWS Direct Connect provides helps you to reduce network costs and increase the amount of bandwidth that can travel through your network;

When a customer requests data from an application hosted in the AWS Cloud, this request is sent as a packet. It enters into a VPC through an internet gateway. Before a packet can enter into a subnet or exit from a subnet, it checks for permissions.

The VPC component that checks packet permissions for subnets is a network access control list (ACLs)

# Network access control lists (ACLs)

  Is a virtual firewall that controls inbound an outbound traffic at the subnet level.

  By default, your account's allows all inbound and outbound traffic, but you can modify it adding your own rules. This rules ensures that if a packet doesn't match any of the other rules on the list, the packet is denied.

  Network ACLs perform stateless packet filtering. They remember nothing and check packets that cross the subnet border each way, inbound and outbound.

After a packet has entered a subnet, it must have its permissions evaluated for resources within the subnet, such as Amazon EC2 instances. The VPC component that checks packet permissions for an Amazon EC2 instance is a security group. 

# Security groups

  Is a virtual firewall that controls inbound and outbound traffic for an  Amazon EC2 instance.

  By default, a security group denies all inbound traffic and allows all outbound traffic. You can add custom rules to configure which traffic to allow or deny.

  Security groups perform stateful packet filtering. They remember previous decisions made for incoming packets.

We've been talking how you interact with your AWS infrastructure, but how do you customer interact? Well, if you have a website hosted at AWS, then customer usually enter your website into their browser, and the site opens up. We going take two services, which would help in the website case, the first one being Route 53.

# Route 53

  Is AWS Domain Name Service (DNS), and it's highly available and scalable. And Amazon Route 53 have some routing polices like:

  - Latency-based routing;
  - Geolocation DNS;
  - Geoproximity routing;
  - Weighted round robin.

Speaking of websites, there is another service which can help speed up delivery of website assets to customers, Amazon CloudFront.

# Amazon CloudFront

  If you remember, we talked about Edge Locations earlier in the course, these locations are serving content as close to customer as possible, and one part of that, is the content delivery network, or CDN. For the who need reminding, a CDN is a network that helps to deliver edge content to users based on their geographic location.
