# Instance Storage

  Provides temporary block-level storage for an Amazon EC2 instance, is disk storage that is physically attached to the host computer for an EC2 instance, and therefore has the same lifespan as the instance. When the instance is terminated, you lose any data in the instance store.

# Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)

  Is a service that provides block-level storage volumes that you can use with EC2 instances. If you stop or terminate an Amazon EC2 instance, all the data on the attached EBS volume remains available.

  To create an EBS volume, you can define the config (such as volume size and type), an after created it can attach to an Amazon EC2 instance.

  You can take incremental backups of EBS volumes by creating Amazon EBS snapshots.

# Amazon EBS snapshots

  Is an incremental backup. This means that the first backup taken of a volume copies all the data. For subsequent backups, only the blocks of data that have changed since the most recent snapshot are saved.

# Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)

  Store and retrieve an unlimited amount of objects, each object consists of data, metadata and a key.

  - Unlimited storage space;
  - The maximum file size for an object is 5 TB;
  - Can set permissions to control visibility and access;
  - Can use the versioning feature to track changes.

  You can choose from a range of storage classes:

  - `S3 Standard`: designed for frequently accessed data and stores data in a minimum of three Availability Zones;
  - `S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA)`: ideal for infrequently accessed data and similar class above, but has a lower storage price and higher retrieval price;
  - `S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA)`: stores data in a single Availability Zone, has a lower storage price than class above. This makes it a good storage class to consider if you want to save costs on storage and/or you can easily reproduce your data in the event of an Availability Zone failure;
  - `S3 Intelligent-Tiering`: ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns, and requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object;
  - `S3 Glacier`: low-cost storage designed for data archiving and able to retrieve objects within a few minutes to hours;
  - `S3 Glacier Deep Archive`: Lowest-cost object storage class ideal for archiving, able to retrieve objects within 12 hours.

  S3 Lifecycle management are policies you can create that can move data automatically between tiers.

# Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)

  Is a scalable file system used with AWS Cloud services and on-premises resources. As you add an remove files, Amazon EFS grows and shrinks automatically. It can scale on demand to petabytes without disrupting applications.

  Amazon EFS has multiple instances reading and writing simultaneously. Linux file system. Regional resource and Automatically scales.

  It stores data in and across multiple Availability Zones.

# Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)

  Is a managed service that automates tasks such as hardware provisioning, database setup, patching, and backups. With these capabilities, you can spend less time completing administrative tasks and more time using data to innovate your applications.

# Amazon DynamoDB

  Is a Non-relational, NoSQL database, a key-value database.

  It delivers single-digit milliseconds performance at any scale.

  DynamoDB is serverless, which means that you do not have to provision, patch, or manage servers. You also do not have to install, maintain or operate software.

  DynamoDB automatically scales to adjust for changes in capacity while maintaining consistent performance.

# Amazon Redshift

  Is a data warehousing service that you can use for big data analytics. It offers the ability  to collect data from many sources and helps you to understand relationships and trends across your data.

# AWS Databases Migration Service (AWS DMS)

  It enables you to migrate relational, nonrelational and other types of data stores.

  With AWS DMS, you move data between a source database and a target database. The source and target databases can be off the same type or different types. During the migration, your source database remains operational, reducing downtime for any applications that rely on the database.

# Additional database services
  - `Amazon DocumentDB`, great for content management, catalogs, user profiles.
  - `Amazon Neptune`, is a graph database service.
  - `Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB)`, is a ledger database service. You can use to review a complete history of all the changes that have been made to your application data.
  - `Amazon Managed Blockchain`, is a service that you can use to create and manage blockchain networks with open-source frameworks.
  - `Amazon ElastiCache`, is a service that adds caching layers on top of your databases to help improve the read times of common requests.
  - `Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX)`, is an in-memory cache for DynamoDB
