# What is Agile?

Agile is an umbrella term for a set of related methods and frameworks that help us to deliver projects on time and more efficiently.

It focuses on incremental delivery and encourages a high degree of collaboration. It also places significance on feedback for continuous improvement throughout the project.

Agile can be described as a mindset with a set of practices and key principles. Agile projects readily accept changes and are more flexible. Unlike traditional projects which follow a rigid plan.
 
## Agile principles

Some of the important agile principles are listed below:

1. They are one active user involvement is imperative.
2. The team must be empowered to make decisions.
3. requirements evolve but the timescale is fixed.
4. Capture requirements at a high level, lightweight and visual.
5. Develop small incremental releases and iterate.
6. Focus on frequent delivery of products.
7. Complete each feature before moving on to the next.
8. Apply the 80 20 rule.
9. Testing is integrated throughout the project life cycle test early and often.
10. A collaborative and cooperative approach between all stakeholders is essential.


## Agile practices

Agile consists of many practices which may or may not be completely followed by all agile projects.

- Retrospectives
    - solving existing
    - future problems
- backlog
- burn up charts
- backlog grooming 
- sprints

and several other practices make an agile project more effective than traditional projects.

## How it works

Agile basically works on an inspect and adapt mode, where problems are analyzed proactively and solutions
are discovered as and when needed, with focus given for continuous improvement.

Early failures are also characteristic of agile projects, which thus enable the agile team to avoid
costly defects at a later point in time.

When speaking of improvement from an agile perspective, it includes both the project as well as the
agile team.

With its focus on continuously evolving strategy and incremental delivery plans, agile makes it possible
to develop more robust products that deliver value quickly.

The time to market is greatly reduced and project expenses are limited within the budget.