The AWS shared responsibility model describe that both the AWS and the Consumer has responsibility with the security. Basically, AWS is responsible for the security of the cloud and you are responsible for the security in the cloud.

# Customer
  - Customer Data
  - Platform, Applications, Identity and Access Management
  - Operating Systems, Network and Firewall Configuration
  - Client-Side data encryption, Server-Side encryption, Networking Traffic protection

# AWS
  - Software
  - Compute, Storage, Database, Networking
  - Hardware/AWS Global Infrastructure
  - Regions, Availability Zones, Edge Locations

# Permissions and access
  - Root user

      When you first create an AWS account, you begin with an identity know as the root user. ( As best practice, do not use the root user for everyday tasks)

  - IAM users

      The AWS Identity and Management (IAM) user is an identity that you create in AWS. It represents the person or application that interacts with AWS services and resources. It consists of a name and credentials.

      By default, the new AWS user created by IAM, has no permissions associated with it. To allow the IAM user to perform specific actions in AWS,  you must grant the IAM user the necessary permissions.

  - IAM polices

      An IAM police is a document that allows or denies permissions to AWS services and resources, it's like:

      ```json
      {
        "Version": "2021-08-03",
        "Statement": {
          "Effect": "Allow",
          "Action": ["se:ListObject", "s3:GetObject"],
          "Resource": ["arn:aws:se::: awsdoc-example-bucket", "arn:aws:s3::: awsdoc-example-bucket/*"]
        }
      }
      ```

  - IAM groups

      Is a collections of IAM users. When you assign an IAM policy to a group, all users in the group are granted permissions specified by the policy.

  - IAM roles

      When the employee needs to a different task, they give up their access to one workstation and gain access to the next workstation. The employee can easily switch between workstations, but at any given point in time, they can have access to only a single workstation. This same concept exists in AWS with IAM roles. 

      An IAM role is an identity that you can assume to gain temporary access to permissions.

      Before an IAM user, application, or service can assume an IAM role, they must be granted permissions to switch to the role. When someone assumes an IAM role, they abandon all previous permissions that they had under a previous role and assume the permissions of the new role.

# AWS Organizations

  Is a central location to manage multiple AWS accounts

  - Centralized management
  - Consolidate billing
  - Hierarchical groupings of accounts
  - AWS service an API actions access control
  - Service control policies (SCPs)

# Compliance

  In the Customer Compliance Center, you can read customer compliance stories to discover how companies in regulated industries have solved various compliance, governance, and audit challenges.

  You can also access compliance whitepapers and documentation on topics such as:

  - AWS answers to key compliance questions
  - An overview of AWS risk and compliance
  - An auditing security checklist

  AWS Artifact is a service that provides on-demand access to AWS security and compliance reports and select online agreements. AWS Artifact consists of two main sections: AWS Artifact Agreements and AWS Artifact Reports.

# Denial-of-service attacks

  To help minimize the effect of DoS and DDoS Attacks on your applications, you can use AWS Shield

  AWS Shield is a service that protects applications against DDoS attacks. AWS Shield provides two levels of protection: Standard and Advanced.

  **AWS Shield Standard** automatically protects all AWS customers at no cost. It protects your AWS resources from the most common, frequently occurring types of DDoS attacks.

  **AWS Shield Advanced** is a paid service that provides detailed attack diagnostics and the ability to detect and mitigate sophisticated DDoS attacks.

# Additional security services
  - AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS)

    AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) enables you to perform encryption operations through the use of cryptographic keys. A cryptographic key is a random string of digits used for locking (encrypting) and unlocking (decrypting) data. You can use AWS KMS to create, manage, and use cryptographic keys. You can also control the use of keys across a wide range of services and in your applications.
  
  - AWS WAF

    AWS WAF is a web application firewall that lets you monitor network requests that come into your web applications.
  
    AWS WAF works in a similar way to block or allow traffic. However, it does this by using a web access control list (ACL) to protect your AWS resources.

  - Amazon Inspector

    Amazon Inspector helps to improve the security and compliance of applications by running automated security assessments. It checks applications for security vulnerabilities and deviations from security best practices, such as open access to Amazon EC2 instances and installations of vulnerable software versions.

  - Amazon GuardDuty

    Amazon GuardDuty is a service that provides intelligent threat detection for your AWS infrastructure and resources. It identifies threats by continuously monitoring the network activity and account behavior within your AWS environment.
