# Artifacts

## The product backlog.

The product backlog is a list of all the features that the product owner would like to see in the finished product. This list constantly evolves and changes over time.
The product owner maintains the backlog and works with the business stakeholders to form requirements.

### The release burndown

Burnedown is a common method of monitoring progress towards the release of a product. It shows the number of story points and sprints remaining till launch.

Simply put, the burn down makes it easy to see if a project is on track. Since a line or chart tracks progress and if all is on track, the line will be on or very close to its diagonal guideline.

## The sprint backlog.

The sprint backlog is the set of items that the development team will work on in a sprint to deliver an increment of functionality.
It is a selection from the product backlog initially picked by the product owner, but finally committed to by the development team.

### The sprint burndown

As with the release burn down, the sprint burn down helps the scrum team monitor progress within a sprint. It consists of features, tasks and their estimates, monitoring the progress of a sprint sprint burn down.

## Releasable product increment.

This is a piece of functionality delivered by the team at the end of each sprint.
It should be potentially releasable and meet the team's definition of done agreed at the start of the project.
Although the definition of done may be adapted from sprint to sprint, it should be agreed at the beginning.
